State is a crucial concept in react and therefore it's important to me that you understand how it works.
Use state is how you manage state and functional components and your state can be anything it doesn't
have to be an array.
It could be some text a number an object an array a boolean anything like that.
Use state always returns an array with two elements no matter what your state is.
If your state is a no use state still returns an array with exactly two elements because the first element
then always is your latest state snapshot and the second element is a function that allows you to update
that state snapshot whenever you update the state snapshot.
React will do two things.
It will update the internally stored state data.
So for example here when we add our first new goal it will replace the initial state with our brand
new state.
In this case with the brand new array we created with cone cat and once it did update the data internally
it will call this component function again and execute the entire function and hence all the rebranded
D.J. as ex code.
Now under the hood it will not re render the entire Dom it will just check which parts of the Dom need
to be updated but it will re-evaluate the entire component.
This also means of course that it re executes use state but use state internally works such that it
only initialize a state state when the component is rendered for the first time and for a subsequent
re or cycles it just pulls out the latest state snapshot and basically ignores the initial value we
set up here.
This is how state works.
Now it is all important to understand that this way of updating our state in this scenario is not the
best possible way.
So all duplicated and commented out.
So did we still have it for reference.
But we also see the better approach.
This approach clearly works and in most cases it will work but you have to be aware that this whole
state updating re rendering part of react isn't the end managed by react.
And when you is set and you state it doesn't pause everything and immediately render your app instead
it's capsules to state update.
And if you have an application with a lot of ongoing state updates and a lot of work being performed
which is not the case and does application but can be the case in other applications then your state
update might be deferred by a few milliseconds.
That means that actually maybe if a user clicks at Gold multiple times the cause goals which are currently
rendered on the screen might not be our latest state because not all state updates might have been processed
yet.
Therefore there is a better form of updating this instead of passing our new state data to set course
goals.
You can pass a function to set course goals a function which receives the latest state pref course goals
and half return a new state snapshot and react will then schedule all these function calls and guarantee
you that they are executed in the right order so that even if a state update was deferred by the time
the update there after executes it guarantees you the first one executed as well.
And then here you would simply date for return pref course gold which still isn't array.
CONCORD New goal it will yield the same result as before in this app and in this simple app.
This approach would have been fine.
There is basically no chance of React deferring updates so long Dad.
We would end up with an incorrect state but this is the bullet proof approach which will always work.
You only need it if your state update depends on the previous state's data.
As this one does.
If your estate update is a new data piece which doesn't depend on the previous state you can always
safely use this non-functional forum.
And here's a side note we can of course all Shorten does take advantage of aerial function syntax and
get rid of the return statement at the curly braces since we have only one expression which we immediately
return.
So now with that ad Brooks asked before but this is a bit of a safer approach and you recommended approach.
If your state update depends on the previous state.